Hey guys will come back to this course and this lecture I'm going to demonstrate a few ways you can
model out expenses that grow with the number of users or customers that you have.
Maybe it's hosting related costs or the amount of stores that they use.
We'll be looking at three ways you can do this now.
The first one is going to be a simple and easy way it is.
Again it's always OK to start with the easy one first just to get a feel for what the numbers might
look like.
And as you continue to understand your situation as you know more about it you can always find ways
to adjust your model to more accurately reflect what's actually happening.
So let's start with the easy one right now.
Okay let's start with the simple case first let's assume that we have this kind of use your projection
and then the active users in any given month is given on line 11 row 11 here.
So by the time we get to the end of the four years we're at over five million active users but we're
starting off at under a thousand.
Okay.
So we have this active users then a really easy way to calculate your hosting needs is if you have a
hosting cost per user per month.
Okay.
Now that we have this we can make an assumption and then then the cost per month is just going to be
the number of users at that time times the cost per user per month.
And then we can calculate that when we copy and paste it across we can calculate that per month.
So then we start off at 20 you know $240 and then by the time we're at 5.4 million users.
It's getting a lot more expensive.
Now this is a really easy way to do this.
And if you don't have any word as a starting point you can start here to kind of just factor that in.
But we're going to do something better.
You know that these kinds of expenses are never just plain flat rate like that.
They're usually something that is tier pricing especially when it comes to hosting.
So we're going to look at two different ways to model tier pricing in terms of modeling your hosting
costs.
Okay.
So a better way to do it is because you know these kinds of costs tend to follow tears.
They're just not going to be one flat rate.
They depend on the number of users and you may increasingly get to higher tears as you have more users
where it may look something like this we're going to look at two examples.
First example is we have these pricing tiers here.
Once you reach a certain number of users then you go into the next pricing tier and then once you reach
an X users you reached the next pricing tier here.
So the pricing tiers are charged in such a way where there's a flat rate and then there's a there is
a per cost per user rate now fly rate gets higher and higher but then the per user rate gets lower and
lower.
So with the same active user projections Let's see how that would look.
So in this one we want to make sure we calculate the correct costs for each.
Tears will recur calculate the costs in the correct year depending on the number of users.
If you have fewer than 50000 users then we want to make sure we calculate in this first year.
Right.
So the way we do that is we first have to check to make sure that we're in the correct year and if we
are then calculate the cost there.
If not then show nothing which has put two quotes here and it will show an empty set.
So what's the check.
For the first one it's pretty straightforward.
Our check is here is the number of active users less than this count here.
If it is then then the price is going to be the flat rate times the number of users times the cost per
users.
Now we copy this all the way across then we're going to get this calculation for all the months where
the number of users is fewer than 50000.
Right.
So once we get past 50000 we see that then it's going to have nothing after that.
So how does the formula work for the other tiers.
Well let's take a look at this one we just got to do the same thing except er check is different.
Or check is has to make sure that it's in this range now.
So how do we check.
Well we've got to use this number and this number to check.
Basically we would use this tears calculation if the number of users is greater than this in less than
this number.
So has to be greater than 50000 and less than 250000 in the archives.
So that's what we're checking we're seeing if an the and is shaking to conditions to make sure they're
both true and the condition is hate the number of users is less than 250000 and the number of users
is greater than 50000 if both are true then calculate the costs based on this tier if not show zeros.
So we have that and we see the same thing.
It's going to keep doing that until we reach 250000 and make the jump right to 250000 the users now
over 250000 now we get to the next year.
So that's what we did for all of the comps here.
Each time we're checking in the correct conditions there right.
So we moved down we're checking these two and we moved down.
We're checking these two.
Now the only difference is we get the last tier We don't need to check this number because there's no
upper limit.
So the only condition is if we're greater than the amount of users then use this rate.
Okay so what we did is then when we have this we copy and paste all of the formulas across.
And what we end up having is it calculates the crack hosting costs in the right here and it kind of
staggers naturally.
And so then our total costs in any given month we just take the sum of all these because we know we're
only going to be adding the correct when all the other ones that aren't supposed to be there are just
going to be blanks.
So then we would pull the correct one and then that roll right there is our housing costs right.
So we see that now.
The other scenario is when we have a tear where it's not a straight Hey once you get past the certain
number of users then you're in the next tier completely.
It's where hey your first 50000 users is going to cost you this much.
Then your next 200000 users is going to cost you this much.
Then the next 750000 users are going to cost you this much.
So regardless you're always going to be paying these lower tears and then you just as you add more users
you reach a higher and higher tier.
OK.
In terms of the cost.
So you know maybe we'll adjust that to make it fit the same ones we were doing just to be a consistent
point of 5 and then we'll do 0.02.
Okay.
So now we have the same costs but it's going to work a little bit differently now.
Right.
So instead of calculating costs here what we're going to do is we're going to try to calculate the number
of users that should fall into each tier.
So what we have here is this top row if there's fewer than 50000 users then all the users are going
to fall into this category.
But once we have more than 50000 users this should top out or maxed out at 50000 and then spill over
into the next year.
So let's take a look at everything below 50000 is going to go there.
But once we have more than 50000 DC that we have it starts to max out at that number.
So we try to do that for all of the correct tears.
Now how do we calculate that right.
So in this one let's take a look at this this one we're taking the minimum member when we want to max
out something we use the mean function.
So what is the maximum value here the maximum value is going to be this range that's given right that
top minus the bottom range.
So the max is going to be in this one.
Two hundred thousand.
But if there's a spill over that's less than that then the way we calculate the spillover is the number
of users minus how many that's been used in the previous year.
In this case it's 50 pounds.
So then whatever's left over will fall into this category.
So we have the 7000 something now.
The other tiers is going to be the same the only difference is we're going to have to take the some
of what's already been used.
So let's take a look at a tier The lower in the selection here.
So here the max range is going to be from this minus that.
Right because everything's already captured in the previous years.
So the max range is 5 million minus 2.5 million.
In this case because that's what we use but it's less than that than the spill over spillage is the
number of active users minus all the users that's already falling into the other tears.
Okay.
So then whatever's left over then spills over here then once you get past 5 million tops out as well
and then we have this extra spillage that goes into the final tier.
So then how do we calculate the hosting costs in this way then what the hosting costs is going to just
equal to the number of users in each tier times the corresponding price in which case we're going to
use some product.
We're going to take the product basically the number of users times the cost per user for each tier
and then we're going to sum up all the products.
So that's exactly what we're doing here.
Okay.
We're going to do that for each month and then we have these calculations the hosting costs for each
month here.
The last thing we're going to look at is the another example.
Maybe you want to calculate the cost of something based on usage.
Now remember we did the segmentation based on usage we can do the same thing.
We can categorize our users based on some usage right.
So let's say we for example have again the same sort of user projection but now what we have is this
kind of usage distribution.
Maybe it's how much storage they use.
Right.
So if it's how much storage they use then we can then take that number of users we can use this distribution
that we have and then calculate the usage by each group and then once we have that number of users that
fall into each group then we can look at the costs right.
So maybe that here is the cost per gig and then that's their average usage by that group.
Okay.
So then when we have that then what we can do is we have then the number of users right times their
average use times the average costs for the use right per gig and then we can do that calculation.
And then what we have then is we have the usage the cost of say the gigs that's used by each crew for
each of the months and then when we sum it all up then we have the total cost.
So there are several ways to do this.
And we get the Easyway that's kind of flat and easy it's easy but a lazy way to do it.
You may want to look at doing it by tiers and here are two different ways that models two different
kinds of tier one that is once you pass a certain number of users then your entire cost follows in that
tier versus the other one where it's a spillage you know the first X users is like this.
And the next group of users that then the next group like that.
And our last example we like that by usage so you can see you can adjust your model to fit whatever
pricing structure that you expect to see for the cost that you're going to be incurring.
So it's really really important to know exactly how the pricing model works for the services that you're
going to be paying for because how you actually execute them in terms of your modeling might look very
different.
All right.
One last way that we can model this is to look at usage.
Remember how we segmented users by usage while we can use this same structure to model up the cost.
If you want to base some cost based on your users usage say you need to track how many gigs of bandwidth
they use in any given month we might be able to model something like this.